+++
date = '2026-07-09T11:54:14+05:30'
title = "2026 Jul 10 :: Benchmarking on Modern Hardware"
author = "Navaneeth M. Nambiar"
draft = false
slides = ''
recording = ''
+++

#### **Talk**
- **Topic:** Benchmarking on Modern Hardware

- **Description:** Software and hardware are continuously evolving. New innovations &
improvements help bring us better performance gains and sometimes things work
out like magic. This is also true for programming languages like Java and OCaml.
And yet, while developing our research ideas and trying to argue about
performance, its hard to comprehend what we’re seeing: Is my benchmark now
faster because of what we did, or was it another previous unrelated change
showing up now? Is it better caching or was it the garbage collector being
triggered? How can we be sure. There is, thus, a need to get reliable feedback
while building up our systems and often benchmark suites can be key in guiding
us.

In this talk, we’ll try to visualize how benchmarking can be hard, what to look
out for and with helpful scenarios all along the way. We will briefly look into
how this may show up in real life in the context of improving OCaml: an
industrial strength functional programming language. Finally, we describe some
of the ideas, old & new, we’re thinking about to help us grow, quantify, and
maintain(!) a new benchmark suite to aid us in bringing more cutting edge
research to our users without sacrificing on legacy code nor slowing down
production workloads.

- **Time** 5 pm to 6 pm (IST)
- **Presenter:** Navaneeth M. Nambiar
- **About the Presenter:** https://www.linkedin.com/in/navaneeth-nambiar/
- **URL** : https://meet.google.com/sih-mkyw-gdi
